---
  title: Types of Evidence Synthesis?
---

The table below describes some of the many types of ways to review and synthesize evidence




<style>
table {
    font-family: arial, sans-serif;
    border-collapse: collapse;
    width: 100%;
}

td, th {
    border: 1px solid #dddddd;
    text-align: left;
    padding: 8px;
}

tr:nth-child(even) {
    background-color: #dddddd;
}
</style>

<br>

<table border="1" width="100%">
<thead>
<tr>
<td colspan="2">
<h1>Types of Evidence Reviews</h1>
</td>
</tr>
</thead>
<tfoot>
<tr>
<td colspan="2">
<font size="6">Based on: A typology of reviews: an analysis of 14 review types and associated methodologies. Health Information and Libraries Journal</font></td>
</tr>
</tfoot>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td> Systematic Review</td>
<td>Seeks to systematically and exhaustively search for, evaluate, and synthesize existing research. Includes an analysis of what is known and unknown, recommendations for action and future research</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Scoping Review</td>
<td>Preliminary look at the size and scope of existing literature on a particular topic. Describes the quantity and quality of research, using a critical look at the study design or other features.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Rapid Review</td>
<td>Quick assessment of what is already known about a policy or practice issue, using systematic review methods to search and evaluate existing research.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Meta-analysis </td>
<td>An approach that uses statistical methods to combine data from multiple studies to show a wider or more precise result. </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Evidence Mapping </td>
<td>The process of mapping out and categorizing existing research to identify gaps and recommend new studies.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Literature Review</td>
<td>The most basic approach: a search for published materials that discuss a particular topic. Findings are often organized by theme, concepts or chronology.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<br>
 

<p>
You’re probably already familiar with one of these kinds of evidence synthesis. If you ever conducted a “literature review” in school, you searched for articles about your topic and then summarized what you learned. That’s a very basic form of evidence synthesis. 

Literature reviews are perfectly good for providing background, but they aren’t rigorous enough to reflect the full scope of research that’s out there. 

When you search for a topic in Google, you’ll get the most popular research first. When you use other literature search tools, you might get the most recent research or research arranged alphabetically by author.  Your initial search will not necessarily show you the useful or the most relevant studies. 

If you’re looking for evidence to make a point in a term paper, this is fine approach, but clinical care or policy decisions require more advanced methods.

Systematic reviews take the basic concept of a literature review to a new level by asking a very specific question, exhaustively searching existing evidence to answer that question, and using specific methods to combine relevant findings together. We talk more about the steps of a Systematic Review on this page. [Hyperlink to steps of a systematic review page]

</p>