---
  title: "Types of EvSynth"
---

## Types of Evidence Synthesis



How do we take a large body of evidence and turn it into useful information?  There are a few ways to do this.

In the past, we relied primarily on **narrative reviews** to gather this kind of knowledge. 

In a **narrative review**, a subject matter expert addresses a research question by surveying and summarizing the existing literature, drawing from primary research and his or her personal experience. These reviews can be useful, but are limited. First, the research included is based only on the expert’s knowledge, not a full review of the existing literature. Second, a narrative review is inherently biased because it’s based on the opinions of one expert. 

Thanks to evolving technology and new techniques for cataloging existing information as well as methods contributions from many researchers, we can now take a more scientific approach to evidence synthesis. The gold standard for this approach is called a **systematic review**. 

A **systematic review** seeks to systematically and exhaustively search for, evaluate, and synthesize existing research. It includes a qualitative and perhaps quantitative analysis of what is known and unknown, as well as recommendations for action and future research.

Depending on the evidence you’re synthesizing, your systematic review might also include **meta-analysis**.  

**Meta-analysis** uses statistical methods to quantitatively combine information from different studies producing a summary of that data. 

#### What if you don’t have the time and resources for a systematic review?

Systematic reviews, especially those that include meta-analysis, require extensive time and resources. If you are short on either of these, a **rapid review** might meet your needs. It’s an abbreviated form of a systematic review that is less comprehensive but still follows a scientific approach to gathering and synthesizing information. 

Depending on your question, you might also use these types of evidence synthesis:

- **Scoping review**: Offers a summary of existing evidence by examining the size and scope of literature on a particular topic to understand if enough evidence exists to conduct a systematic review.
- **Evidence map**: Similar to a scoping review, but includes an analysis of what type of studies are missing from a body of evidence by identifying gaps and recommending new areas of research. Our colleague Stacey Springs is using evidence mapping in a project with the Arts and Health Research Network. 

In the world of evidence synthesis, some of these terms are used interchangeably, which can be confusing. To see how one academic explained the differences between 14 different approaches to reviewing and synthesizing information, 

<a href="http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1471-1842.2009.00848.x/full" target="_blank">take a look at this paper</a>.

Now that we know evidence synthesis can take various forms, let’s talk about the gold standard for evidence synthesis, the type we typically conduct at the CESH: a systematic review.


<div class="pagination-section">
			<div class="title">
				Next module:
			</div>
			<a rel="next" class="next" href="{{ site.baseurl }}/modules/systematic%20reviews/systematic-review/"> {{ next }} Systematic Reviews
			</a>
		</div>