---
  title: Why is Evsynth helpful?
---

## Why is Evidence Synthesis Helpful? 

<br>


Evidence Synthesis is helpful because it can:

- **Help with information overload**<br>
As the rate of medical research continues to climb, it’s impossible to keep up with the latest findings. Evidence synthesis combines all available information into a digestible and useable format and determines which studies are rigorous enough to be included in the review of research about a particular topic.
- **Combine small studies together for more powerful findings**<br>
A small research study might lack enough participants or evidence to distinguish signal from noise, but when it’s put in context with other similar studies, it can help paint a larger picture.  For instance, a study of 20 people may be too small to establish a relationship between practicing meditation and decreasing blood pressure, but if multiple studies show a similar effect, the evidence is more compelling.
- **Describe variation and explain apparent discrepancies in existing research**<br>
Are there really health benefits associated with drinking red wine? What about eating dark chocolate? The latest answer often seems to depend on the most recent study. Evidence synthesis gets beyond the confusing headlines to look at the entire body of research on a topic, screening out poorly designed or irrelevant studies and accounting for random variation or study differences. 
- **Examine whether a finding varies under different conditions**<br>
Many interventions work differently for different people or under different conditions. By combining results from different studies, it may be possible to determine how groups of individuals vary in the way they respond to interventions. Understanding this heterogeneity can help target treatments to the right patients. 
- **Be updated as new information arises**<br>
Once researchers have designed a process for gathering and synthesizing relevant information, that process can be easily updated to capture new research. For example, if researchers conduct a systematic review in 2016 comparing bariatric surgery to gastric bypass surgery, they can rerun their search in 2017 to find new studies and update their work.
- **Identify research gaps and needs for future studies**<br>
Because evidence synthesis takes a comprehensive look at the existing body of knowledge, it captures not only what research already exists but what research is missing. This analysis is helpful for guiding the direction of future studies. For instance, a meta analysis of studies related to the performance of limb prosthesis might find that few studies include women with prosthetic limbs and recommend research examining if performance differs between men and women. 
             
We’ll talk more about how we do this later on in the course. First, let’s discuss the various types of evidence synthesis.
